# Task 1.A Implementaing a simplem kernel module
This tasks's main objective is to see how Loadable Kernel Module (LKM) work in linux with a simple `Hellow World` program

## compile the module

In the `Makefile` 
```
all:
	make -C /lib/modules/$(shell uname -r)/build M=$(PWD) modules
```
This line builds the kernel and outputs `hello.ko` file which is a LKM that can be loaded into the linux kernel
Simpily run `make` in the same directory as the `Makefile`
You will get the following output 
```
seed@weihong-System-Product-Name:~/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module$ make
make -C /lib/modules/5.15.0-86-generic/build M=/home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module modules
make[1]: Entering directory '/usr/src/linux-headers-5.15.0-86-generic'
  CC [M]  /home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module/hello.o
  MODPOST /home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module/Module.symvers
  CC [M]  /home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module/hello.mod.o
  LD [M]  /home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module/hello.ko
  BTF [M] /home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module/hello.ko
Skipping BTF generation for /home/seed/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module/hello.ko due to unavailability of vmlinux
make[1]: Leaving directory '/usr/src/linux-headers-5.15.0-86-generic'
```
In the same folder as the `Makefile` there are several files being created
```
hello.ko
hello.mod
hello.mode.c
hello.mode.o
hello.o
modules.order
```

## Insert the module
Run `sudo insmod hello.ko`
There should not be any output seen in the terminal

## List modules

Run `sudo lsmod|grep hello`
This command list the modules and pipe it into `grep` program and filter for `hello`

### output
```
seed@weihong-System-Product-Name:~/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/kernel_module$ lsmod | grep hello
hello                  16384  0
```

From the output we see that the kernel module is successfully loaded

## Remove the module
Run `sudo rmmod hello`

## Output message
Run `dmesg`
We can see the following two lines that is printed out by out kernel module
```
[20371.495459] Hello World!
[20662.363058] Bye-bye World!.
```
Which means that kernel execution is successful


# Task 1B Implement a simple firewall using Netfilter

In this task, we need to use LKM and Netfilter to implement a packet filtering module. This module will fetch the firewall policies from a data structure, and use the policies to decide whether packets should be blocked or not.

## Compile the code to apply netfilter the block outgoing udp packet

Run `make` to compile the LKM with the netfilter

Insert the LKM using `make ins` to check if the module is insert propertly, run `lsmod|grep seed` you should see a `seedFilter` module in the output. Which means the LKM is loaded successfully

Run `dig @8.8.8.8 www.example.com` to check if the filter is working properly
```
seed@weihong-System-Product-Name:~/Desktop/networksecurtiy_lab/firewall/Files/packet_filter$ dig @8.8.8.8 www.example.com

; <<>> DiG 9.16.1-Ubuntu <<>> @8.8.8.8 www.example.com
; (1 server found)
;; global options: +cmd
;; connection timed out; no servers could be reached

```
From the output, we can tell that the outgoing packet to `8.8.8.8` is blocked which means the filter rule is working as expected

## Hook function to all hooks
using an array to register the function to all the hooks 
### Exlaination
1. NF_INET_LOCAL_IN: This hook is triggered after an incoming packet is received but before it's handed off to the local process. It's typically used for tasks like filtering incoming packets.
2. NF_INET_FORWARD: This hook is used for packets that are being forwarded through the system, i.e., neither for local input nor for local output. It's invoked after routing decisions are made but before it hits the POST_ROUTING hook.NF_INET_LOCAL_IN: This hook is triggered after an incoming packet is received but before it's handed off to the local process. It's typically used for tasks like filtering incoming packets.
3. NF_INET_LOCAL_OUT: This hook is called for outgoing packets after they are generated by the local process but before they're put on the wire. It can be used for tasks like modifying or filtering outgoing packets.
4. NF_INET_PRE_ROUTING: This is the first hook that's invoked as soon as a packet is received. It's triggered before any routing decisions are made. You can think of it as the entry point for incoming packets.
5. NF_INET_POST_ROUTING: This hook is called after all routing decisions have been made and just before the packet is transmitted on the wire. It's the las

## Two more hook functions






